flexbox

display:flex

glossary:-

main axis :- horizontally
cross exit:- vertically

what is direct child

example 1:-

div > p

p is the direct child of div tag

example 2:-

p

the text inside the p tag will be considered as direct child of p tag

what will it do ?

whenever we apply "display:flex" property on any element, it will arrange there direct children (or child if we have single element) on main axis as default,

properties

flex-direction
content placement axis

row
row-reverse
column
column-reverse

justify-content - works on main axis
place content on main axis

flex-start
flex-end
center

space-between
equal space between elements only - no space before first element and after last element

space-evenly
even space between elements, before first element and after last element.
the space before the first item, the gaps between items, and the space after the last item are all identical.

space-around
the outer space before the first item and after the last item is "half" the size of the inner spaces between items

*) align-items - works on cross axis

flex-start
flex-end
center

stretch

What it does: Forces items to grow and fill the entire cross-axis dimension of the parent container (if no explicit height or width is set on the item)
Default behavior: It is the default value for align-items in both Flexbox and CSS Grid
Visual effect: All items match the height (in a row layout) of the tallest item in that container.
Use case: Making equal-height card components or grid cells regardless of how much text is inside them

make every element stretch to the height of parent

baseline

What it does: Aligns flex or grid items so that their text baselines (the invisible line upon which letters sit) line up horizontally.
Size handling: Items keep their intrinsic content size instead of being stretched
Visual effect: Useful when items have mixed font sizes; it prevents text from jumping up and down by locking the text lines to a shared horizontal track
Use case: Aligning a small heading next to a large heading or a button next to text so the text contents look visually level.

make content of every element at same level
mostly used when make baseline for different size of fonts as same level,
like in Gujarat samachar newspaper article , to indicate the starting of news article , author make first letter of first word make bigger in font size

*) - flex wrap

wrap
This is the most common setting. As soon as the first row is completely full, any new items will cleanly drop down to a new row directly below it. It reads just like English text—left to right, top to bottom

nowrap
This is what happens if you don't say anything. All your items are forced to stay on one single line. If they don't fit, they will either shrink until they look ugly, or they will spill completely out of the container

wrap-reverse
This works just like regular wrapping, but in reverse. Instead of dropping down to a new line below, the new items will create a row above the original line

* ) - align content

requirement on parent

display: flex;
flex-wrap: wrap;

in one container

there should be multiple rows with "flex-wrap: wrap"


how to place elements inside one cross axis in a flexbox container
like justify-content in one single column wrap with flex:wrap

values

flex-start
flex-end
center
stretch
space-between
space-evenly
space-around

gap:

gap works with absolute gap defined by numbers
gap between elements
8px, 24px .....

overall flexbox works on 9 places of screen

top left corner
top center
top right corner

middle left side
middle 
middle right side

bottom left corner
bottom center
bottom right corner






